Terms and Conditions
Confidential Page 1 of 6
Article 1 DEFINITIONS
1.1 “Acceptance Criteria” means all requirements stated in the Purchase Order or Work Specification or Handoff Instructions or InfoSheet and this Contract to ensure that the Work meets the Project definition.
1.2 “Business Partner Portal” is a special tool developed by the Customer in particular for issuing Purchase Orders and Receipts and receiving Progress Reports and Invoices from the Contractor, as specified in InfoSheet.
1.3 “Contract” shall mean Contract for Work including any of its appendices, annexes, amendments and these Terms and Conditions or InfoSheet as executed by the parties.
1.4 “Day” means a calendar day.
1.5 “Deadline” or “Delivery Date” means the date specified for delivery of the Work in the Purchase Order or Handoff Instructions, either in a form of Handoff email or through any other tool used for sending Handoffs such as Handoff - Handback Portal as modified from time to time by any Work Specification(s).
1.6 “Defects” mean deviations from the specifications in the Localized Product and/or Work related to Localization or performed Services as per the meaning given in Article 8 – Guarantee period below.
1.7 “Executed Work” means the Work performed and reported in the Status Reports for the given month. The Work executed in the given month must be included in the Progress Report for the period, unless otherwise agreed with the Customer Project Manager. If a part of Work is deemed executed, it means that it is ready for delivery and can be delivered to Customer upon request. The Customer Project Manager confirms the acceptance of this Work by creating a Receipt in the Business Partner Portal.
1.8 “Final Acceptance Date” means the date on which the Customer provides written notice to the Contractor of its acceptance of the Localized Product and/or Work.
1.9 “Guarantee Repair Period” means the agreed period of time within which the Contractor shall repair the Defects in the Localized Product and/or Work related to Localization or performed Services as per the meaning given in Article 8 below.
1.10 “Handoff Instructions” means instructions for processing Work by the Contractor sent via email or other medium by the Customer. They contain files, technically prepared by the Customer’s engineers for localization; comprehensive project information (deadlines, payment terms, the Customer’s contact for individual types of questions and queries), exact linguistic and technical instructions, reference material and potential other components necessary to for the Work to be successfully handed back by the Contractor to
the Customer. Handoff Instructions must be carefully read, acknowledged and followed.
1.11 “InfoSheet” means a document prepared by the Customer containing the information about payment terms, Purchase Order and invoicing.
1.12 “Localization” means Contractor’s activity consisting in particular of processing the Product provided by Customer into the specified language or format in accordance with the guidelines, Purchase Order, Work Specification(s), Handoff Instructions and schedule provided by Customer.
1.13 “Localized Product” means the processed version of Product that the Contractor delivers to Customer to represent the completed Work done in accordance with the Purchase Order or Work Specification.
1.14 “MT” or “Machine Translation” means use of computer software to translate the Work instead of use of human translator.
1.15 “Material Deadline” means a substantial Deadline or Delivery Date, agreed by both parties, as per the meaning given in Article 9 – Damages for certain breaches below.
1.16 “Product” means software, user’s assistance (printed documentation as well as electronic documents) and all additional material as described in the Purchase Order or Work Specification required to create the Localized Product and/or perform Services, which also includes all versions, adaptations, modifications, derivations or additions and subsequent changes to the source material that Customer may require during a Project.
1.17 “Progress Report” must be completed by the Contractor in the Business Partner Portal for all projects which will be partially invoiced before the whole Project is completed, unless otherwise agreed with the Customer’s Project Manager. It contains the PO number, its date and Project number for invoicing purposes. It specifies the volume of Executed Work in the particular month by the Contractor.
1.18 “Project” means an assignment by the Customer to Contractor, the details of which are set forth in a Purchase Order, as modified from time to time by any Work Specification(s).
1.19 “Project Addendum” means the specific document concluded between Customer and Contractor in connection with this Contract. This document can be issued for a separate Project. All provisions of the above mentioned Contract for Work (incl. Amendments) and all Terms and Conditions remain valid, unless otherwise stated in this Addendum. In case of conflicts between provisions stipulated in these documents, the provisions specified in the Addendum have priority to the provisions in the other mentioned documents.
1.20 “Purchase Order”, or “PO” accessible through the Business Partner Portal is a document containing a unique Purchase Order Number (PO Number), PO Date, Project Number and Name, identification of the Customer and the
Terms and Conditions
Confidential Page 2 of 6
Contractor, Customer Project Manager Name and total expenses planned for a Project. It contains all items, which the Contractor is expected to perform with their pricing. A Purchase Order may be updated by the Customer several times during the course of the Project to reflect changes in the Project scope and volume, and the actual Work to be done by the Contractor, as approved by the Customer, while taking into account potential comments and information from the Contractor. The details may be specified in a Work Specification.
1.21 “Receipt” means an electronic approval of the Executed Work created by the Customer Project Manager in the Business Partner Portal, which enables the Contractor to invoice.
1.22 “Services” means services specified in Article 3 – Scope of Work of the Contract for Work, also called Work.
1.23 “Status Report” is a document required weekly on some Projects, which informs the Customer’s representative (Project Manager) about the current status of the Project. It must reflect the real state of Work and duly inform of any issues or problems, which arose during the reported period.
1.24 “Term” means period of duration of the Contract.
1.25 “Terms and Conditions” means this document.
1.26 “Translation Memories” means databases generated using Trados Translator’s WorkBench or other translation tool, unless specified otherwise in a Purchase Order or a Work Specification. Note: for updates the Trados analysis will be used for leverage of the recycled Translation.
1.27 “Work” means the Localized Product and/or performed Services done in accordance with the Purchase Order and Work Specification(s) and all additional obligations of the Contractor under this Contract.
1.28 “Work Specification” usually in the form of an email message, contains other details of the Project, namely Deadline or schedule for carrying out the Work, description of the Project (reference materials to be used to comply with project specifications) and any instructions necessary for executing the Work as revised from the Customer from time to time.
Article 2 TERMS OF BUSINESS
2.1 Under this Contract the Contractor undertakes to carry out specific Work on the basis of the Purchase Order or Handoff Instructions issued by the Customer and the Customer undertakes to pay him a price for his performance. For every Project, Customer prepares a Purchase Order or Handoff Instructions, which may be further detailed by a Work Specification that includes the time-schedule, Deadline and additional information required completing the Work.
2.2 Once the Customer sends a Purchase Order (or Work Specification or InfoSheet or Handoff Instructions) the Contractor is deemed to have accepted of the PO (and Work Specification and InforSheet or Handoff Instructions), including the schedule, unless Contractor affirmatively objects to it in writing to Customer within ten days of receipt. In the event of a timely rejection, the parties shall use their best efforts to work out their differences.
2.3 The Contractor expressly declares that it has obtained all necessary licenses for all software used on its premises or by its employees and/or subcontractors included but not limited to the software required to complete the Work to be licensed software.
2.4 The parties hereby confirm that the subject of the Contract complies with all applicable laws including but not limited to European Council Regulation (EC) No 1334/2000 of 22 June 2000 setting up a Community regime for the control of exports of dual-use items and technology transposed by the Czech Act No 594/2004 Coll.
2.5 Contractor acknowledges that Customer’s relationships with its principals, employees, clients and contractors are valuable business assets of Customer. Contractor agrees that during the period of the Contract and for one year thereafter, Contractor shall not directly or indirectly (for Contractor, a third party or otherwise) divert or attempt to divert from Customer any such principal, employee, client or contractor, through solicitation or otherwise. In the case of violation of the provisions this Article 2.5, Customer damage will be difficult to determine. Therefore, Customer shall be entitled to seek and obtain equitable relief and shall in addition, be entitled to be reimbursed for its damages in the amount of $10 000 USD per incident. Without prejudice to its right to receive money damages, Customer shall also, have a right to terminate this Contract upon notice with immediate effect.
Article 3 DELIVERY DATE
3.1 The Delivery Date is provided in the Purchase Order or in the corresponding Work Specification(s).
3.2 If the Contractor either i) fails to deliver the Localized Product and/or Work by the Delivery Date, or ii) delivers the Localized Product and/or Work by the Delivery Date but in a form which does not in every way meet the Acceptance Criteria, the Contractor shall be in material breach of this Contract. In such case, the Customer may, in its sole discretion, either terminate this Contract immediately upon notice or take any corrective action authorized hereunder in the event of a Defect, as defined below.
Article 4 CUSTOMER OBLIGATIONS
4.1 Customer shall provide the Contractor with all materials stated in the Purchase Order or Work Specification.
Terms and Conditions
Confidential Page 3 of 6
4.2 Customer shall support the Contractor during the Projects in a professional and timely manner, particularly regarding queries and technical issues.
Article 5 CONTRACTOR´S OBLIGATIONS
5.1 The Contractor shall execute Work to the best of its ability, in accordance with industry best practices and with the applicable Purchase Order or Work Specification.
5.2 The Contractor is not allowed to use Machine Translation on Work execution unless specifically requested by Customer. The Contractor must inform all individuals delivering any part of Work about such ban. Use of MT without prior consent of the Customer shall be considered as a breach of Contract and is subject to financial penalty amounting to 10,000 USD. Furthermore, the Contractor shall not be compensated for such Executed Work.
5.3 The Contractor shall send all localized files and/or pieces of Work to Customer for evaluation.
5.4 The Contractor shall keep a full backup copy of all Project files on compatible media.
5.5 The Contractor shall timely deliver the Work to Customer according to the Purchase Order and Work Specification, including glossaries, Translation Memories, error logs and other materials according to Customer’s requirements generated during a Project, which constitute a part of the deliverables.
5.6 The Contractor shall not reverse engineer or attempt to reverse engineer any of the Product and tools provided by Customer and its clients.
5.7 Depending on the Project size and strategic importance, Customer may require Contractor to provide weekly Status Reports showing Project progress. If the invoicing is agreed based on the Work executed in the given month, a Progress Report must be filled in into the Progress Report Form. For some Projects, a “post-mortem” or feedback may also be required.
5.8 For each Project, the Delivery Date(s) and delivery materials will be specified in Purchase Order or Work Specification. Customer will keep the Contractor informed of all changes. In such case both parties can re-negotiate Delivery Date(s) and make appropriate adjustment to prices if necessary.
5.9 The Contractor abides to the rule that all the Work they deliver has been proofread, reviewed and checked for spelling errors and provided style guides references have been used as specified in the Handoff Instructions. The Contractor guarantees final quality to the Customer. Upon a request from the Customer the Contractor is obliged to issue a Certificate of Accurate Translation or similar document as specified by the Customer, to confirm the accuracy of the Work. Such certificate has to be signed either by the translator or reviewer or both of them.
5.10 Contractor agrees to abide by other and additional Service obligation(s) imposed by Customer in its reasonable discretion from time to time, including but not limited to the use of specific processes, tools, systems, and reporting mechanisms.
Article 6 DELAY OF THE CONTRACTOR
6.1 If Contractor is not able to fulfil his obligation on time, he shall notify Customer immediately. At the same time he shall announce the subsequent Delivery Date. Customer is not bound by such date and has the right to terminate the Contract upon a notice without breaking Customer’s rights to seek indemnification from Contractor for damages and loss of profit.
Article 7 ACCEPTANCE
7.1 Customer shall evaluate the Work at the completion of each stage of Work as identified in the applicable Work Specification, and shall submit a written acceptance or rejection to the Contractor within thirty (30) days of receipt of that portion of the Work. If no written rejection is given to the Contractor by Customer within the specified time, the Work (or applicable portion thereof) shall be deemed accepted.
7.2 If Customer rejects the Work (or portion thereof), Customer shall provide the Contractor with a written statement of its reasons for rejection that is sufficient for the Contractor to identify the deficiencies. The Contractor shall then have a period of ten (10) days to correct at its own cost any errors, inaccuracies, inconsistencies, defects, incorrect references or deviations from the specifications herein, in which case a corrected version of the Work (or portion thereof) shall be delivered to Customer and Customer shall have an additional ten (10) days from receipt of the corrected version of the Work (or portion thereof) to re-evaluate and accept or reject the same. Furthermore, the Customer shall have the right to deduct the cost of quality assurance accomplished in order to consider the Acceptance Criteria, from any amount then owed to Contractor, or to invoice Contractor directly for the cost of such quality assurance. Contractor is obliged to pay the invoiced costs within 14 days from the receipt of the invoice. If Customer rejects corrected version of the Work (or portion thereof), Customer may in its discretion require the Contractor to repeat the correction and re-evaluation cycle described in this Article 7.2 or has right to terminate the Contract upon notice according to Article 13 – Termination of contract or is entitled by himself and on Contractor’s account to have the repair made by a third party on Contractor’s account. If the Customer elects to have the Executed Work or the Localized Product repaired by a third party, the Customer shall have the right to deduct the cost of such repair from any amount then owed to Contractor, or to invoice Contractor directly for the cost of such repairs, plus a ten percent (10%) administrative charge. Contractor is obliged to pay the invoiced costs within 14 days from the receipt of the invoice.
Terms and Conditions
Confidential Page 4 of 6
Article 8 GUARANTEE PERIOD
8.1 The Contractor shall provide for the Work the Guarantee period 18 months from the Final Acceptance Day.
8.2 Contractor hereby agrees that upon delivery of the Localized Product and/or Work to the Customer, the Localized Product and/or Work shall be free from any and all defects related to Localization and/or performed Services including but not limited to those related to compliance with all relevant requirements of any administration body, laws, regulations, rules, acts, statutes, or standards, including but not limited to those related to health and safety, that may govern the Localized Products and/or Work (together “Defects”). In the event that any Defect in the Localized Product related to Localization and/or performed Services is discovered by the Customer or by a client of the Customer, at any time during the eighteen (18) months following the Final Acceptance Date, Contractor hereby agrees to repair such Defect at its cost within fifteen (15) calendar days of actual receipt of written notice of such defect from the Customer (the “Guarantee Repair Period”). If the repair is not completed within the Guarantee Repair Period, the Customer may, in its sole discretion, either terminate this Contract immediately upon notice or have the Localized Product and/or Work repaired by a third party of the Customer’s choice. If the Customer elects to have the Localized Product and/or Work repaired by a third party, the Customer shall have the right to deduct the cost of such repair from any amount then owed to Contractor, or to invoice Contractor directly for the cost of such repairs. Contractor hereby agrees to pay such invoiced costs within fourteen (14) calendar days from the receipt of such invoice.
Article 9 PRICE, INVOICING AND PAYMENT CONDITIONS
9.1. The price, invoicing and payment conditions for the Services shall be specified in the PO, Work Specification, InfoSheet.
9.2. Any requests or questions related to pricing or payment conditions including Project specific discounts have to be discussed/agreed only with/by dedicated Business Partner Manager or Resource Coordinator. Customer’s Project Managers are not authorized..
Article 10 DAMAGES FOR CERTAIN BREACHES AND INDEMNIFICATION
10.1. The Contractor acknowledges that Contractor's compliance with the Terms and Conditions of this Contract is an important factor to the continued success of the Customer's operations and its future prospects. However, the parties agree that if at any time during the Term, Contractor were to i) fail to meet a Delivery Date, ii) fail to meet any Deadline or iii) submits to the Customer any Executed Work which is ultimately properly rejected (each of the foregoing a “Specified Breach”), the damage thereby suffered by the Customer as a result of such Specified Breach would be material, but that the amount of damages would be uncertain and not readily ascertainable. Accordingly, the parties agree that, if, there is a Specified Breach, the Customer will be entitled either to i) a deduction of damages from any due and unpaid invoice from Contractor, or ii) a cash payment to compensate damage.
10.2. Contractor agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the Customer for any liabilities, claims, or demands (including the related costs, expenses, and attorneys’ fees) that may be made upon Customer as a consequence of or arising from actions or omissions of Contractor, including but not limited to claims for injuries to persons or damages to property, for worker’s compensation benefits, or claims of violations of restrictive covenants. Customer agrees to notify Contractor of any written claim or demands made against the Customer for which Contractor is liable hereunder.
Article 11 OWNERSHIP
11.1 Ownership of the Work shall at all times belong to Customer, this being a “work for hire” contract. Contractor shall obtain no license or ownership interest in any part of the Project.
Article 12 FORCE MAJEURE
12.1. Neither party shall be liable for any delay or failure in performance due to Force Majeure. Each party shall immediately notify the other party of the occurrence of such an event affecting such party and shall use all reasonable efforts to recommence performance as soon as possible.
Article 13 TERMINATION OF CONTRACT
13.1. In case of breach of any duty resulting of Contract from the part of Contractor, Customer is entitled to terminate Contract upon notice, with immediate effect.
13.2. Subject to Section 13.3 the Contractor may terminate the Contract upon notice, with immediate effect in cases when the Customer fails to pay outstanding invoices despite reminders and a reasonable amount of time to cure.
13.3. In the event of a termination by Contractor, the Contractor is obligated to deliver all Work specified in the Handoff Instructions or Work Specifications.
13.4. Notwithstanding the above mentioned, both parties have the right to terminate this Contract with three months written notice without stating a reason for termination. Said termination shall, however, only apply to further Work and Services which is not included in any Purchase Orders issued before the termination, unless otherwise agreed by the parties in writing.
Article 14 SUB-ORDERS
14.1 Contractor may not sub-order or subcontract the whole or parts of the Contract without the prior written consent of Customer. However, this shall not relieve Contractor from any liability or obligation under the Contract and Contractor shall be responsible for the acts,
Terms and Conditions
Confidential Page 5 of 6
defaults, and neglects of any Sub-Contractor, its agents, servants or workmen as fully as if they were the acts, defaults or neglects of Contractor and its agents, servants or workmen. Contractor shall give Customer prior written notice of any such sub-order or subcontract.
Article 15 COPYRIGHTS
15.1 Because this is a work for hire contract, the Contractor does not obtain or retain any copyrights or ownership in any of the product resulting from the Work. In the event it is determined part of the Contractor acquired any such rights, the Contractor hereby exclusively assigns and conveys all such ownership and copyright rights to Customer
If the applicable laws do not allow the Contractor to provide the Customer with the above rights, the Contractor shall take all actions necessary for the Customer to get the full, irrevocable and unlimited ownership or rights of use to the maximum possible extent.
15.2 The Contractor warrants that the Work does not violate or infringe any copyright or other proprietary right of any third party and that the Contractor is not aware of any facts upon which such a claim for infringement could be based.
15.3 No cancellation or termination of the Contract for whatever reason shall affect the validity of these provisions, concerning the Work already accepted by the Customer.
Article 16 CONFIDENTIALITY
16.1 The term “Confidential Information” means non-public information that a party to this Contract (“Disclosing Party”) designates as being confidential to the party that receives such information (“Receiving Party”) or which, under the circumstances surrounding disclosure ought to be treated as confidential by the other party. “Confidential Information” shall include, without limitation:
a) All information considered by one party to be confidential, and marked as “confidential” prior to disclosure to the other party, or which, under the circumstances surrounding disclosure ought to be treated as confidential by the other party,
b) All information or data in tangible or intangible form concerning or related to Products (released or unreleased software or hardware Products) of the clients of Customer (including the discovery, invention, research, improvement, development, manufacture, marketing, promotion or sale of any Product of Customer clients) or business operations, policies or practices (including sales costs, profits, pricing methods, organisations, employee lists, and processes), and all property of Customer and of its clients,
c) All forecasts for production, support, or service requirements submitted by Customer pursuant to this Contract,
d) All information provided by Customer for the purpose of evaluation and preparation of bid by the Contractor.
Article 17 NONDISCLOSURE
17.1 Neither party shall disclose to any person or entity, other than its employees or consented subcontractors who have a need to know and are under confidentiality obligations, any Confidential Information of the other party, whether written or oral, which one party may obtain from the other, or otherwise discover in the performance of this Contract. Without limiting the generality above, the recipient of Confidential Information shall maintain all such Confidential Information in strict confidence. The recipient shall take all reasonable steps to ensure that no unauthorised person or entity has access to Confidential Information of the disclosing party, and that all authorised persons having access to Confidential Information refrain from any unauthorised disclosure. This obligation shall survive any termination or expiration of this Contract.
17.2 Receiving Party may disclose Confidential Information of Disclosing Party in accordance with a judicial or other governmental order. In such case, the Receiving Party shall give the Disclosing Party notice prior to such disclosure to allow the Disclosing Party a reasonable opportunity to seek a protective order or equivalent.
17.3 The Contractor shall take all necessary actions to ensure that Confidential Information will not be removed from Contractors premises without written acceptance from Customer with the exception as stated in Article 5.4 – Contractor’s obligations of these Terms and Conditions.
17.4 Media containing the Work or the Work itself shall not be equipped with any devices that could interfere with their use (including to limitation: time locks, keys or bombs) or interfere with, delete or corrupt data.
17.5 The Contractor shall exclusively consider Customer as its ordering party for a given Project, once the Contractor has accepted to undertake the Work, and shall refrain from any and all immediate contact regarding this particular Project with the ultimate clients of Customer for localization and other services unless such a contact is expressly requested by Customer. Authorisation for such contact shall be given in writing by Customer.
17.6 The Contractor may not list the clients of the Customer in reference lists, similar documents or Websites, neither is granted any rights in the clients’ trademarks, trade names or logos, and the use of the same in any Contractor documentation or Websites, or otherwise, without the Customer’s prior written agreement. This relates only to Projects carried out under this Contract and does not relate to references to clients and Projects which are done through other MLVs or directly for the end clients.
Terms and Conditions
Confidential Page 6 of 6
17.7 In the case of violation of the provisions in Articles 16 - Confidentiality and 17 – Nondisclosure, Customer is entitled to claim penalty at the amount of 10 000 USD per incident. Without prejudice to its right to submit a claim for full compensation of damage, and it is entitled to terminate this Contract upon notice with immediate effect.
Article 18 INDEPENDENT CONTRACTOR
18.1. The parties agree that during the term of this Contract, Contractor is independent of Customer in the method used to provide the Work, is not subject to the hour-to-hour rule or employer type control of Customer, and is engaged by Customer only insofar as achieving a good end result. Contractor is responsible for the successful completion and performance of the Work. Contractor will be treated as an independent contractor for federal or state tax purposes with respect to services performed pursuant to this Contract. Contractor is responsible for paying Contractor’s estimated income and all self-employment tax. Contractor shall indemnify Customer from any and all taxes, interest and penalties Customer may incur as a result of the above treatment of Contractor.